.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

:upcoming-release:

Ferrocene 24.05.0
=================

Ferrocene 24.05.0 is the second major release of Ferrocene.

The highlights of this release are the inclusion of Rust 1.76.0, the qualified
:target:`x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` target, new experimental targets, and the
use of a bundled linker.

New features
------------

* The Rust version has been updated to 1.76.0.

* The :target:`x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` target is now supported and qualified
  for safety critical use, in addition to being used as a host platform like in
  previous releases.

New experimental features
-------------------------

Experimental features are not qualified for safety critical use, and are
shipped as a preview.

* Experimental support has been added for multiple cross-compilation targets.
  Note that experimental targets are not qualified for safety critical use. The
  new targets are:

  * :target-with-triple:`thumbv7em-none-eabi`
  * :target-with-triple:`thumbv7em-none-eabihf`
  * :target-with-triple:`wasm32-unknown-unknown`

* The self-testing tool now checks the correct behavior of *linker drivers*,
  according to the new requirements for linkers. Note that the self-testing
  tool is not qualified for safety critical use yet.

* These tools from upstream toolchain are now distributed with Ferrocene:

  - ``clippy``
  - ``rustfmt``
  - ``rust-analyzer``
  - ``rust-demangler``

Changes
-------

* Ferrocene now uses a bundled copy of LLD as the linker, and allows any
  external linker or C compiler to be used as the *linker driver* as long as it
  adheres to the :ref:`behavior specified in the Safety Manual
  <safety-manual:linker-options>`. The purpose of the *linker driver* is to
  locate the system libraries needed for the linkage, and instructing LLD on
  where to find them.

Bug fixes
---------

* Disabled LLVM optimization that optimizes lifetime zones that are broken to mitigate
  `KP-R112213 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R112213.html>`_.

Rust changes
------------

This release includes the following changes introduced by the upstream Rust
project. Note that this changelog is maintained by upstream. The target support
changes described here describe Rust's support levels, and have no correlation
to the targets and platforms supported by Ferrocene.

.. rust-changelog::
   :from: 1.69.0
   :to: 1.76.0
