.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

Ferrocene 24.08.0
=================

Ferrocene 24.08.0 is the third major release of Ferrocene.

The highlights of this release are the inclusion of Rust 1.79.0 and new
experimental platform support, including Windows and macOS as hosts, and QNX as
cross-compilation targets.

New features
------------

* Updated the Rust version to include the changes in Rust 1.77.0, 1.77.1,
  1.77.2, 1.78.0 and 1.79.0. Backports of `Rust PR #128271`_, `Rust PR
  #127364`_ and `Rust PR #126154`_ are also included to fix bugs introduced in
  Rust 1.78.0.

.. _Rust PR #128271: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/128271
.. _Rust PR #127364: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/127364
.. _Rust PR #126154: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/126154

New experimental features
-------------------------

Experimental features are not qualified for safety critical use, and are
shipped as a preview.

* Experimental support has been added for new cross-compilation targets.
  Note that experimental targets are not qualified for safety critical use. The
  new targets are:

  * :target-with-tuple:`armv8r-none-eabihf`
  * :target-with-tuple:`armv7r-none-eabihf`
  * :target-with-tuple:`armebv7r-none-eabihf`
  * :target-with-tuple:`x86_64-apple-darwin`
  * :target-with-tuple:`aarch64-unknown-nto-qnx710`
  * :target-with-tuple:`x86_64-pc-nto-qnx710`

* Experimental support has been added for new host platforms. Note that
  experimental targets are not qualified for safety critical use. The new
  targets are:

  * :target-with-tuple:`aarch64-apple-darwin`
  * :target-with-tuple:`x86_64-pc-windows-msvc`

Changes
-------

* The :target-with-tuple:`x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu` target now requires
  glibc version of 2.31 or higher.

Rust changes
------------

This release includes the following changes introduced by the upstream Rust
project. Note that this changelog is maintained by upstream. The target support
changes described here describe Rust's support levels, and have no correlation
to the targets and platforms supported by Ferrocene.

.. rust-changelog::
   :from: 1.77.0
   :to: 1.79.0

