.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

:upcoming-release:

Ferrocene 25.02.0
=================

Ferrocene 25.02.0 is the fith major release of Ferrocene.

The highlights of this release are the inclusion of Rust 1.83.0, as well as several new experimental targets.

New features
------------

Updated the Rust version to include changes in Rust 1.82.0 and 1.83.0.

New experimental features
-------------------------

Experimental features are not qualified for safety critical use, and are
shipped as a preview.

* Experimental support has been added for multiple cross-compilation targets.
  Note that experimental targets are not qualified for safety critical use. The
  new targets are:

  * :target-with-triple:`thumbv6m-none-eabi`
  * :target-with-triple:`thumbv8m.base-none-eabi`
  * :target-with-triple:`thumbv8m.main-none-eabi`
  * :target-with-triple:`thumbv8m.main-none-eabihf`
  * :target-with-triple:`riscv64gc-unknown-linux-gnu`

Fixed known problems
--------------------

* `KP-R98117 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R98117.html>`_: Static where clause accepted due to incorrect type bound
* `KP-R102048 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R102048.html>`_: Missing error on overlapping implementation with higher-ranked trait bounds and associated types
* `KP-R107887 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R107887.html>`_: The compiler may incorrectly accept overlapping implementations involving trait object trait implementations
* `KP-R114582 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R114582.html>`_: The `_mm_stream_*` operations may be reordered
* `KP-R118813 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R118813.html>`_: Miscompilation of `__extendhfsf2` intrinsic when linking library dependent on `libgcc`
* `KP-R124364 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R124364.html>`_: Miscompilation due to differing floating point behavior at runtime and compile time
* `KP-R126079 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R126079.html>`_: The compiler fails to check object-safety for associated types in method signatures
* `KP-R128243 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R128243.html>`_: Miscompilation when branching on floating-point value comparisons
* `KP-R130347 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R130347.html>`_: Lifetimes within projections of super traits in trait objects are not checked
* `KP-R130528 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R130528.html>`_: Function parameter patterns do not check for unsafe contexts
* `KP-R131195 <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/KP-R131195.html>`_: Optimization generates incorrect code involving `!` operator on non-bool primitives

Rust changes
------------

This release includes the following changes introduced by the upstream Rust
project. Note that this changelog is maintained by upstream. The target support
changes described here describe Rust's support levels, and have no correlation
to the targets and platforms supported by Ferrocene.

.. rust-changelog::
   :from: 1.82.0
   :to: 1.83.0
