.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

Ferrocene 25.11.0
=================

New features
------------

A subset of the ``core`` library has been certified to IEC-61508 SIL 2. For more information,
see the :doc:`user-manual:core/index` and :doc:`core-certification:index`.

New experimental features
-------------------------

Experimental features are not qualified for safety critical use, and are
shipped as a preview.

* Experimental support has been added for ``cargo miri``, an unstable undefined
  behavior detection tool. Other than installation, usage is
  `according to upstream documentation <https://github.com/rust-lang/miri>`_.

  The package is available as:

  * ``miri-${rustc-host}``

* The testing facades used to test ``core`` are now available for customer use.
  On their respective target pages, the following targets now have an equivalent
  testing facade which can be used for testing:

  * :ref:`aarch64-unknown-none`
  * :ref:`thumbv7em-none-eabi`
  * :ref:`thumbv7em-none-eabihf`

* Experimental support has been added for multiple cross-compilation targets.
  Note that experimental targets are not qualified for safety critical use. The
  new targets are:

  * :target-with-tuple:`aarch64-unknown-linux-musl`
  * :target-with-tuple:`x86_64-unknown-linux-musl`

Fixed known problems
--------------------

A list of fixed known problems in this release can be found on the
`Ferrocene 25.11 Known Problems <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/versions/25.11.html>`_
page.

Rust changes
------------

This release includes the following changes introduced by the upstream Rust
project. Note that this changelog is maintained by upstream. The target support
changes described here describe Rust's support levels, and have no correlation
to the targets and platforms supported by Ferrocene.

.. rust-changelog::
   :from: 1.89.0
   :to: 1.90.0
