.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

Ferrocene 26.02.0
=================

New features
------------

* The target support tiers were updated. Many previously experimental targets are now supported, and support tiers
  are now better described. For more information, see :doc:`user-manual:targets/index`.
* The certified subset of the ``core`` library that is certified to IEC 61508 SIL 2 has been significantly expanded.
* The subset of the core library has also been certified to ISO 26262 ASIL B.
  For more information, see the [Core library overview](https://public-docs.ferrocene.dev/main/user-manual/core/index.html)
  and [Core Library Certification](https://public-docs.ferrocene.dev/main/certification/core/index.html).
* Targets with certified ``core`` libraries now have ``*-ferrocene-*`` equivalents, which contain a minimal certified panic implementation.
* The core certification documentation has been expanded.

For more information on the certified ``core`` library and a complete list of functions, see the :doc:`user-manual:core/index` and :doc:`core-certification:index`.

Fixed known problems
--------------------

A list of fixed known problems in this release can be found on the
`Ferrocene 26.02 Known Problems <https://problems.ferrocene.dev/versions/26.02.html>`_
page.

Rust changes
------------

This release includes the following changes introduced by the upstream Rust
project. Note that this changelog is maintained by upstream. The target support
changes described here describe Rust's support levels, and have no correlation
to the targets and platforms supported by Ferrocene.

.. rust-changelog::
   :from: 1.91.0
   :to: 1.92.0
