.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT OR Apache-2.0
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: The Ferrocene Developers

Working on the documentation
============================

Qualification documents are built with Sphinx, and their source code is located
in the ``ferrocene/doc`` folder inside the Ferrocene repository. For example,
the source of the Safety Manual is located in ``ferrocene/doc/safety-manual``.

The Ferrocene build system takes care of building and cross-linking the
documentation, including downloading all the required dependencies. Building
the documents outside of the Ferrocene build system (including building them
with the standard Sphinx CLI) is not supported and will likely not work.

This section of the Internal Procedures contains documentation on how to work
on the documentation. Quality management procedures are available in the
:doc:`qualification-plan:development`.

Building documents
------------------

You can build a qualification document by passing its path to the Ferrocene
build system:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc ferrocene/doc/$name

You can also build multiple documents at the same time by passing all of their
paths:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc ferrocene/doc/$foo ferrocene/doc/$bar ferrocene/doc/$baz

If you want to build all the documentation generated with Sphinx (for example
if you need to ensure cross-document links work, or you need to test an
extension change across all documents) you can run:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc ferrocene/doc

If you want to build all of the available documentation, including the standard
library docs and documentation from upstream, you can omit the path:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc

The build system will output the path containing the resulting documents. You
can also open the built documents in your browser by passing the ``--open``
flag:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc ferrocene/doc/$foo --open

If you are making frequent changes to the contents of a document, the
``--serve`` flag will continuously watch for changes in the file system and
rebuild content as needed. It also starts a local web server with automatic
reloading of the changes in the browser:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc ferrocene/doc/$foo --serve

.. caution::

   The ``--serve`` flag is only available for documents built with Sphinx, and
   it will not do anything for other kinds of documentation (like mdBook or
   rustdoc). It also only supports serving a *single* Sphinx document: if you
   attempt to serve more than one at the time it will error out.

When you are working on Sphinx extensions, the ``--debug-sphinx`` flag will
change the configuration to aid debugging, by running only one builder job at
the time and showing exception tracebacks:

.. code-block:: text

   ./x doc ferrocene/doc/$foo --debug-sphinx

.. note::

   Sphinx features automatic dependency tracking and should rebuild only the
   files you actually changed. Dependency tracking doesn't work when the
   implementation of extensions is changed: in those cases you will want to
   pass the ``--fresh`` flag, which does a fresh build ignoring caches:

   .. code-block:: text

      ./x doc ferrocene/doc/$foo --fresh

.. _test-outcomes:

Test outcomes
-------------

Some of our documents, like the :doc:`qualification-report:rustc/index` page,
need to know which tests were executed and ignored to generate parts of the
content. We call this information "test outcomes". While not strictly required
to build the docs, not providing them will result in some information being
omitted, and warnings being rendered in the generated content mentioning the
lack of test outcomes.

Test outcomes consist of a collection of JSON files produced by the build
system's "build metrics" feature. They are usually generated by CI, but it is
possible to also generate them locally by setting the ``build.metrics = true``
option in ``config.toml``.

Downloading test outcomes from CI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The easiest way to inject test outcomes into the built documentation is to
instruct the build system to automatically download the latest available copy
of the test outcomes built by CI. People with access to the Ferrocene AWS
account can do so by adding this to their ``config.toml``:

.. code-block:: toml

   ferrocene.test-outcomes = "download-ci"

Generating and using the test outcomes locally
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are building Ferrocene from source on a single builder machine, or you
need to use test outcomes from a local test suite invocation, you can add this
to your ``config.toml``:

.. code-block::

   build.metrics = true
   ferrocene.test-outcomes = "local"

Note that there are some limitations to be aware of when doing so:

* Test outcomes are only persisted when the command finishes, and tasks
  requiring them will ignore outcomes not persisted to disk. This means that
  tasks generating test outcomes and tasks consuming test outcomes must be
  executed in separate build system invocations.

* Test outcomes are only persisted when the command finishes *successfully*.
  Failed build system invocations (for example due to a failing test) will not
  result in them being persisted.

* When persisting test outcomes, the build system *appends* the new test
  outcomes to the previous one, never overwriting them. If you need fresh test
  outcomes, remove the ``build/metrics.json`` file before invoking the build
  system.

Note that test metrics are only measured for qualified targets, i.e. a target listed in :doc:`qualification-report:rustc/index`.
Other targets will be ignored when generating the docs.
For each target in the docs, use the "testing" target, which is the "Bare metal testing target" if it exists or the "Compilation target" otherwise.

Non-linux hosts
"""""""""""""""

The facade targets have a Linux base, which means there is no way to run facade binaries on macOS.
However, you can still collect test outcomes for a subset of tests as long as they are only ``//@ build-pass`` or ``//@ check-pass``.
These outcomes are never suitable for signed documents, only for local testing.
An example:

.. code-block::

   x t tests/ui/annotate-snippet --target aarch64-unknown-ferrocene.facade --test-variant 2021

Injecting external test outcomes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Another way is to fetch the test outcomes from an external source (like a
Ferrocene release, or a custom storage solution collecting the test outcomes
from different build servers), store all of them in a directory, and point the
build system to that directory in ``config.toml``:

.. code-block:: toml

   ferrocene.test-outcomes = "custom"
   ferrocene.test-outcomes-dir = "path/to/outcomes"

An example of this is injecting the test outcomes from a Ferrocene release.
Manually download a copy of the test outcomes from `the releases download
portal <https://releases.ferrocene.dev>`_ (look for a tarball named
``ferrocene-test-outcomes`` in the release you care about), extract the tarball
in a directory on disk, and add this snippet to ``config.toml``:

.. code-block:: toml

   ferrocene.test-outcomes = "custom"
   ferrocene.test-outcomes-dir = "path/to/extracted/tarball/share/ferrocene/test-outcomes"

.. note::

   When configuring a custom path for the test outcomes, make sure you choose
   the path actually containing the JSON files. In downloaded tarballs, that is
   the ``share/ferrocene/test-outcomes`` directory inside the tarball.
